# 500 Projects for Spring 2024

## Project Proposal First Drafts

Investigator | Title | TEL Questions and Comments
:------------: | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------------------:
Karlo Toljan | Outcomes in posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome based on history of hypertension | You have more "diagnosed" than "not diagnosed" subjects, and a very similar number of subjects in the two groups - so matching is going to be challenging.
Akhil S.G. | To come
Sriram Satyavolu | The Paradoxical Association Between Food Insecurity and Obesity | You need a title in the actual document, not just the file name. You need some new research questions. As with the other NHANES studies, you have a timeline problem. To be an appropriate covariate, it has to happen before the treatment is applied. How would you know that in the setting of a cross-sectional survey? Without using sampling weights, it's hard to know if this will work. Including the sampling weight as a covariate will be important. The main problem is that these data are cross-sectional, so I don't know how you're going to decide which came first - the food insecurity or the obesity, and so I don't know what should be the outcome and what the exposure. Also, you probably want to look at BMI without classifying it. Moreover, statistical significance shouldn't be a part of this. I'm not really sure you're going to be able to make this work.
Miza Salim Hammoud | To come
Sam	Rodgers-Melnick | Effectiveness of Music Therapy on Length of Stay and Opioid Utilization | We want, I think, to be looking at unique patients, at least in this project. So we don't want the same individual appearing twice in the data (even if MT once and no MT another time.)
Justin Robinson | Analysis of Surgical Strategy on Operative Outcomes: Pulmonary Artery Banding and Other Surgical Interventions | Your knitting didn't work properly. Probably missing something in the YAML. Who is in the data? Your research question needs to be more precise about both the outcome and the intervention, and that these are infants. A little unclear whether you have time-to-event data available. Why are you assuming that the surgical intervention was the cause of death in study?
Aman Pande | Treatment of non-IPF interstitial lung disease with immunosuppressant medications. Comparison with a propensity matched control group | Get rid of some of the acronyms in places like your research question. Inclusion and exclusion criteria need clarification for me - not sure I understand how the "usual care" group is selected. Probably need to fix the title to drop or change the final phrase. Over what time period is your outcome measured? Does it make sense to look at a quantity (% change in forced vital capacity) over that same timeline using mixed effects in this Project - I'm not sure at this stage? Do your measurements over the course of follow-up care get to count as covariates here?
Anthony	Orsino | High School Drug Distribution and Social Health | Once you have access to the data, I hope you can develop additional covariates along the lines of what you're discussing here, and I also figure we'll be able to revisit the exposure definitions to see if a middle ground can be isolated (and ignored for the project) allowing you to get a bigger spread between those who do and don't have strong social ties. Gender and gender identity both listed as potential covariates - what do you mean there?
Anya Nazarenko | Are men less likely to seek mental health treatment services than their female counterparts? | I think you can drop the last four words in the title. As with the other NHANES studies, you have a timeline problem, but in your case, it's just with the covariates. To be an appropriate covariate, it has to happen before the treatment is applied. How would you know that in the setting of a cross-sectional survey? Without using sampling weights, it's hard to know if this will work. Including the sampling weight as a covariate will be important. It's nice that you have a conceptual model but the timeline remains a major challenge. I would revise the RQ to be clearer about what you're really going to be looking for. Although NHANES calls it gender, it's sex. Whatever you do, DO NOT categorize covariates that are available as quantities, like age or health care utilization. It's always a bad idea - and not just in propensity score analysis.
Hala Nas | Acute Respiratory Failure and Pneumothorax in Bronchoscopic Lung Volume Reduction: Insights from the National Inpatient Sample | Do you have the data yet? Also, you have a typo ("form") in the title. Are all other pulmonary procedures equally comparable to what we'll see in the "exposed" group?
Lydia Mitchell | Impact of being on a health insurance plan on the premature death rate of adults in the United States | CHR does not provide data on individuals, only on counties. So your proposed exposure does not make sense. Is your outcome measured (not reported, measured) by CHR later than your exposure and covariates? Don't prune your data to just these seven states. Include all of the counties, regardless of the fact that this slightly exceeds the 2500 limit. Then compare counties with (say) the top 25% (high) levels of insurance to counties with the bottom 50% (low) levels of insurance, ignoring the counties in the middle.
Morgan McLoughlin | Maternal Depression as a Predictor of Participation and Engagement in a Parent-Training Intervention | What are you going to do about moms with a score of 16 on the CES-D? What will you do about Moms who didn't choose to participate in studying level of engagement? When do you expect to have the data?
Marie	Masotya | Asthma and School Absenteeism in Children on Medicaid in Cuyahoga County | Timeline for having the data in hand? All demographic data comes from Medicaid Claims? Are there additional covariates available? What is the actual sample size (rather than pruning to 500 with and 2000 without asthma?)
Lent	Mantshonyane | The causal effect of tobacco smoking and biomass smoke on TB infection and TB disease | You've misspelled "preceding". I would probably to do this work with one exposure, rather than cramming two into one project. The main problem there is that each of your exposures are very infrequently seen in your data. The big issue with the outcome -> what, exactly, are you looking at when you define a 1 vs. a 0 there is still a little unclear.
Ava	Fan | Imaging extranodal extension as a prognostic factor in HPV+ oropharyngeal cancer | Do not use the word "correlate" in a research question. A weak correlation is still a correlation. We're after more here, if we're doing a propensity score analysis. Something like "lead to" is what we have in mind. Are you able to consider some additional information about the subjects, like insurance status, where they live, etc.  I'd also quibble with your label for some of the things you list as demographics (smoking history, and alcohol use, in particular). To what extent are the treatment characteristics known before iENE is present or absent?
Sid	Dugar | Does performance of echocardiogram early during sepsis and septic change outcome? A Comparison with a propensity matched cohort study | Probably need to fix the title to at least drop "A comparison with". Do you really have gender, or just sex? Do you have information on insurance? Do you have information on race/ethnicity or social determinants of health? On where these people live?
Jesse	Chen | Effect of Hypertension on Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Among US Non-obese Adults: A Propensity-matched National-based Cohort Study | As with the other NHANES studies, you have a timeline problem, and there's no clear outcome-exposure relationship to study. To be an appropriate covariate, it has to happen before the treatment is applied. How would you know that in the setting of a cross-sectional survey? Also, you can't include your covariates in your research question. Without using sampling weights, it's hard to know if this will work. Including the sampling weight as a covariate will be important. I think you have the USFLI values (and this would let you use a quantitative outcome, in addition to the binary indicator. It is an issue, though, that the outcome includes in its calculation a number of things that you're also proposing to use as covariates. You have to use real NHANES data, not the Kaggle version. Finally, you say that the covariates are "...all measured prior to the decision to apply the exposure of interest to patients." How is that possible?
Chris	Benson | Development of cancer or malignancies in adults ages 21-79 taking low-dosage aspirin daily in the US | As with the other NHANES studies, you have a timeline problem, and there's no clear outcome-exposure relationship to study. To be an appropriate covariate, it has to happen before the treatment is applied. How would you know that in the setting of a cross-sectional survey? Without using sampling weights, it's hard to know if this will work. Including the sampling weight as a covariate will be important. Running a 1:5 match, when you have more intervention (aspirin) than control (no aspirin) simply doesn't make any sense. Why don't you have more people who qualify?
Seth Bauer | Vasopressor Cessation Order in the De-escalation Phase of Septic Shock | Are there people who will be difficult to categorize into these two exposure groups? (People who cease both at the same time, or approximately the same time?)
John	Barron | Lung Transplant Survival in Veterans of the US Armed Forces | (1) Are there available secondary outcomes of interest in addition to mortality? (2) Any thoughts about restricting controls to be "more like vets" in the early stages (perhaps mostly male?)
Naji	Ayyash | Does living in counties in the top quartile of air quality lead to significant health benefits in terms of potential life lost and mentally unhealthy days experienced? | (1) Is the outcome data really from 2023, or just reported by CHR for 2023? Timeline? maybe use an earlier CHR to obtain covariates and exposure than you use for outcome. (2) I'd switch from a 75th percentile measure to something like a comparison of those 85% and above to those 80% and below, leaving a middle group unstudied here. (3) Fix the title to describe the study more broadly, and for heaven's sake, don't use significance. (4) You misspelled Organization in the reference
Sara	Alqahtani | The Impact of Cybersecurity Breaches on Internal Control | (1) Are other covariates actually available, and over what length of time do you plan to study the ones you have? (2) What do you mean by Year of the IV?

